>> LILOU: Hello, my
juicy co-creators.
Lilou here, on the road
in beautiful London.
Actually, not quite rainy,
but a little bit cloudy,
as it usually is,
with Menna van Praag.
Hello, Menna.
>> MENNA VAN PRAAG:
Hello, Lilou.
Nice to see you again.
>> LILOU: I'm excited to meet
you again here in London.
Last time it was a few years ago
when you were just coming out
with your book "Men,
Money, and Chocolate."
That's such a delicious book.
And since then you have become
one of those hit novelists.
Congratulations.
>> VAN PRAAG: Thank
you very much.
>> LILOU: So I'm excited to
speak about your own journey
and how this worked out for you.
So this is more, I
guess, of an interview
related to the
teachings of your book,
but before that related to
making your dreams come true.
Because you've always
wanted to be a writer.
But that was not that
easy to get there, was it?
Can you describe to us
all the synchronicities
in your magnificent story?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah, sure.
Well, yeah, I wanted to be
a writer for a long time.
I graduated from Oxford with
a degree in modern history,
but I didn't really want
to do anything with it.
I didn't know what
I wanted to do.
So I became a waitress
and wrote in my spare time
whenever I could.
And I worked and worked,
and I wrote and wrote.
And then I went
to New York, and I
went on this wonderful
workshop with this couple
called Ariel and Shya Kane.
I was so inspired, I came home,
and I took two weeks off work,
and I wrote "Men,
Money, and Chocolate."
I just sat in a room and wrote
the whole thing like that.
And then I finished
it, and I read it.
And I read it to my mom.
And it was so funny
because-- a bit
of a spoiler in the book--
in the book for the first 2/3
of the book it was
really my story
about being a waitress,
wanting to be a writer,
and not knowing how to do
it, how to be successful.
And then in the second
third of the book,
she publishes her book herself
and then makes a success of it.
So my mom read it,
and she said, you
must publish this book yourself.
I said, oh my god, I
don't know how to do that.
I don't know what to do.
So she said, well,
we can find out.
So we looked online, and
I just found somewhere.
I self-published it.
And then I literally
spent months
going around Cambridge, my
hometown, Oxford, London,
going from all the
shops and saying,
can you please sell this?
Can you put it in the window?
>> LILOU: I'm sure so
many authors can relate.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
And I would make
chocolate flapjacks
for them, which
is my speciality,
and I would take them around.
In England, chocolate
flapjacks are
made with oats and
butter and golden syrup.
And I know in America
it's a bit different.
And I would go
back again and say,
can you put it in the window?
Can you do this?
Can you do that?
And in the end, I sold
nearly 1,000 copies.
>> LILOU: For some
self-published,
that's a big number.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
And it was just my
mission, I suppose.
I got everyone I
knew to buy the book.
And then I went to Hay House.
I knew I wanted them
as my publisher.
That was just my idea.
I didn't go to anyone else.
I went straight to
them, and I said, look,
this is what I've done.
Could you read the book?
And I sent them the book.
And a few weeks later, they
called me, and they said,
we love it.
Can we take you to lunch?
And I said, oh, OK.
I was super excited.
>> LILOU: That's a good
sign, the lunch part.
>> VAN PRAAG: The
lunch is a good sign.
And I went with the
editor there, Michelle,
and we spoke for two hours.
I couldn't eat because
I was so nervous.
We're in this beautiful
posh restaurant,
and I couldn't eat anything.
And they published
the book, I think
without changing, really,
anything about it,
the next year.
And then I think
within about a year
it was translated into 26
languages or something.
So it did very well for them,
and they were very happy.
But they said to me-- it
was very interesting--
that if I hadn't
self-published it
they probably wouldn't
have taken it on.
And the other bit about the
story that I forgot to tell
was I actually sent it to
them before self-publishing.
Because it made me nervous.
How was I going to
do this all myself?
And I sent them the
first manuscript,
and they sent it back.
And they said, oh, no.
We have too much of
this, or whatever.
And I thought, no you don't.
You don't have anything
like this book.
There's nothing like this book.
Because I specifically
wrote this book-- for me,
it's like "The
Alchemist" for women.
This was my vision
for this book.
And then I called them.
Actually, it's so funny.
I called them.
You know when you just
really believe in something?
I called them, and
I said, I'm going
to go out there and show
you what this book can do.
And they said, OK, whatever.
It was funny, because
then when I submitted it
to them again the
woman who'd rejected
it had left a little while ago.
She was someone's assistant,
and she didn't know,
I think, the woman
who I then sent it to.
It just goes to
show if you persist
with something it
can really pay off.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
And you had kind
of an ultimate goal
to be published by the age of
30, and it happened right then.
Talking of the power
of visualization.
There's a lot of information,
knowledge, insight, lessons
in your book.
They're fictional, and we're
going to go into that part.
But you wanted to
be published by 30.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
Well, I had made this promise
to myself and my husband.
Because I graduated.
Everyone said, get a good job.
Work in the city or something.
I said, no, I really
want to be a writer.
And I think I was 21.
And I said, OK, by
the time I'm 30,
if I haven't been published
by the time I'm 30,
then I will give up
and get a real job.
And then it was
August or something
and I turned 30 in October,
and I was like, oh my god, I'm
not going to be published.
I had nothing.
I had done nothing.
I'd written many books, but
nothing had happened with them.
And then I went
to this workshop.
Yeah, it was July, August.
And then I stood at
the front, and I said,
I made this decision when I was
21, and I made this promise,
and I have to be published
by the time I'm 30.
But what am I going to do?
And I can't remember what
they said to me exactly,
but it was something inspiring.
And I went home, and I said,
right, if I have this dream,
I have to make this happen.
It very much like
this is my dream.
I can't just wait around.
And this was really
the message of my book.
And I think it's
so amazing that you
have something that
you need to learn.
And so I sat down, and I wrote
this book all about courage
and all about taking action
and all about that you
have to do something
for yourself.
You can't wait for someone
to take care of it for you.
>> LILOU: No knock at the door.
>> VAN PRAAG: No
knock at the door.
And that was when my
mom said, well, you
have to self-publish
this book, then.
And it was so perfect
that Hay House rejected me
the first time.
It was so perfect.
I look back on it then,
and I think, yeah,
because then I had
to do it myself.
And that changes
you as a person.
You just have more
courage, and I just
think that makes life wonderful.
>> LILOU: And you have so
much more gratitude, I guess.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
>> LILOU: Because to this
day, it's pretty awesome to be
published by Hay House, Hay
House being the publisher
of a lot of famous authors
in the US and the UK,
including Wayne Dyer, Sonia
Choquette that I love,
and many, many other
ones, Anita Moorjani, too.
This is the crowd.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
>> LILOU: But they bet
a little bit on you,
because it's quite different
to write a fictional--
this is a fiction book.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
Yeah.
And at that time, they
didn't do any fiction.
They just did facts.
And now they do.
But this was back in 2009.
They didn't do
any fiction, which
was why when they sent it
away the first time I said,
but you have nothing like this.
This is unique for you.
And then I think because it was
a success, then they thought,
oh, this is kind of cool.
And now they've
expanded into fiction.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
What do you say then to
people that have dreams?
Because I remember publishing
my book and finding yours.
And that's how originally
I heard about you.
Because I went into a bookstore,
and this lady or this man
told me, oh, this
is a great example.
Menna van Praag
with her book just
got published by Hay House,
and maybe you too one day.
So it gives energy, and
it gives inspiration
to hear another
story like yours.
Whatever our dream is, we have
our own version of our dream.
And sometimes we try to
do it as others do it.
But this is not the
real fulfillment.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
No, I really believe in,
yeah, finding your own dream,
your own passion,
and not giving up.
Just keep going and keep going.
It took me, what, 10
years to get published?
And I really had so many
nights, I don't know,
midnight I'm still working.
I'm writing on napkins.
I remember saying so
many times to my husband,
am I doing the right thing?
Should I give up?
And he's like, no, no, no.
I knew I would never give up,
but I had these many moments
of thinking, really,
what am I doing?
And I have friends
in New York who
I was speaking to last
night, and they're actors,
and they have the same thing.
She's saying, it's been so long.
And I said, don't give up.
Don't give up.
Because you hear these
wonderful stories.
I remember I heard
this story, and I
used to collect these stories.
When I was kind of in these
dark nights of the soul,
I would look and I would
find-- and I remember one.
Jim Carrey, when he
was a struggling actor
he wrote himself a
check for $20 million.
He put it up on his
mantelpiece, and he's
like, one day I'm going
to get paid $20 million.
And he was the first actor
to ever get paid $20 million
for one film.
And I thought that's
so interesting,
this idea of how you really
manifest these dreams.
I genuinely believe that
the universe rewards courage
and that you kind of keep
getting knocked back,
you keep getting knocked back.
And it's how many
times are you going
to stand up again
and keep going.
>> LILOU: Another thing
about you too is you have
a child-like attitude.
You get excited, and you love
chocolate, and you run around.
You have this little girl
still in you, alive, huh?
And a lot of teachers
speak about that.
Is it something that
never left or you
had to work on it or relearn how
to be grateful or live fully?
Is it something that
develops through time?
>> VAN PRAAG: Well I
was always like that.
Yeah, for sure.
And then my 20s were hard.
I got knocked around
a bit by life,
and I had two major illnesses
that came very close,
so that was difficult.
And a few things happened.
But like I say, when I
went on this workshop--
I do things to cultivate
this feeling of gratitude,
this feeling of
enjoying every moment.
I always read books like this.
I watch movies like this.
I go to these workshops.
It's like everything I can do
to cultivate that love of life.
Because you have so much
negativity in the world
and so much people going
around being all grumpy.
I do Lindy Hop dancing,
which I love very much.
Just everything you can do to
make you feel good, I think,
is so important.
>> LILOU: And the magic seems
to happen outside of our comfort
zone.
It seems to be outside, not
just right here where we are at.
But we have to kind
of go an meet it.
Do you have that feeling?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
Absolutely.
And it's so funny.
I was looking at this comfort
zone thing the other day.
Because I really
realized in me I
have this-- I don't know if
everyone has it-- inertia.
Even, for example, with
something simple like dancing--
and I love dancing.
I love it-- every
Wednesday night
there's this piece of me going
maybe I'll just stay at home
and sit on the sofa.
Maybe I'll just stay
in in my pajamas.
And there's always
this little piece of me
that has to get over that.
I have to say, no,
I love to dance.
I love to go out and do this.
And that's why I
think self-publishing
was such a phenomenal
thing for me,
because this is not in my
nature to go out and do this
naturally.
And I remember reading this
wonderful story, again,
was about John Grisham.
And when he first
published his first book,
I don't think he self-published,
but he published it.
And he went literally
all around the South
to bookshop to bookshop
to bookshop saying,
please, put my
book in the window.
Please, put my book
on the display.
Because you realize when you're
an author that if they just
put it on the
shelf really no one
sees it if you don't have
the publicity behind you.
And I thought,
gosh, I would never
have the courage to do that.
And I think it was so
good that I did that.
Because otherwise, I
would probably still
be sitting at home on
my sofa writing my books
and not getting them published.
>> LILOU: So how
did you get started?
Why was it "Men,
Money, and Chocolate?"
Where did the creativity
come from, really?
How do you start when
you write a story?
>> VAN PRAAG: Well, that
story was very unique.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
How you had said-- it came in.
>> VAN PRAAG: It came in.
I was having a
conversation with my mom,
and we have these very
inspiring conversations.
She's a life coach.
And we were talking
about happiness and joy
and enlightenment.
And she said, well, how
come we're not like this
all the time?
Because we were sitting
in the summer garden.
It was such a beautiful day.
We were so happy.
Why does this not just last?
And I said, oh, it's men,
money, and chocolate.
It just came out of nowhere.
And I said, it's all
the things that we
think we need to make us
happy, all the things outside
of ourselves.
We think we need money
and wealth and success.
We think we need a man
and a relationship.
We think we need pleasure
of any kind, shopping, food,
that kind of thing.
Then I said it, and I said, oh,
great book title that would be.
But it took me four
years of living
to live-- I knew I
couldn't write it then,
because I was in my
early 20s or my mid 20s.
Things had happened, but I
hadn't had that life experience
to write a book like that.
So I waited four
years, and it was
kind of mulling
around-- maybe that's
why I wrote it so
quick in two weeks,
because it was in there--
then I lived a whole bunch,
and then I could really
sit down and write it.
>> LILOU: So the book
title came like that,
and then the writing also.
A lot of people speak of
those writing blockages
or those other things.
You haven't experienced
any of that, obviously.
But I guess for the other
novels and the latest one,
there's been a lot
more work involved.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
>> LILOU: It's easy to compare.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
This was a very unique
experience, really.
And I look back on
it now, I think, wow.
Because I sat down in a
room-- it's a very short book.
And I wrote the
book in two weeks.
I remember every day, I just
got up and I wrote and wrote.
And then when I
published it, I really
hadn't edited it that much.
I really didn't
change much at all.
And then when they published it,
they didn't change it at all.
It was really funny.
And then I published the
sequel, and I wrote the sequel
in three weeks.
And again, it was very easy,
and they didn't edit it.
And now I just published a big
book, a sort of proper fiction
book, and that took me two and
a half years, maybe three years
to write.
And it went through
20-something drafts.
So this was a very
different experience.
>> LILOU: Tell us about the
lessons and what happens
in "Men, Money,
Chocolate," for example,
that one in particular.
I want to speak of your
latest one after that,
but this one was
very interesting.
I was very excited when--
>> VAN PRAAG: I remember.
>> LILOU: --I read it.
Oh my god.
That really spoke to me
truth about our own journey
as a woman.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
Well, it's wonderful
for me, because I've
had so many-- I was
going to say letters--
but emails from women all
over the world saying,
this is my story.
This is my life.
This is my journey.
And I think, well, I
just wrote it about me.
Because I didn't really know.
I wanted to say
something to women,
but I just had to
say it from my heart.
And so I just thought what
is the most important things
that I need to know as a woman?
So I started off,
the first thing
was about not losing yourself
in a relationship, how
we've all been there, I'm sure.
We fall for a man, and then
we kind of twist ourselves
and change ourselves and try
and fit into the relationship.
And then we think that if
we lose that relationship
we lose a piece of ourselves.
But really, we've lost
a piece of ourselves
in the relationship.
So I wrote about that.
And I wrote about how you
really have to love yourself
and how to cherish and love
yourself before you find a man.
So then you can really be
happy within that relationship.
And this was very
important for me.
I had to write about
loving your body
as it is, not about
trying to change
it to fit some ideal of
how we think it should be
and really how you
can love yourself
and how you can embrace yourself
and then what that can lead to
and how you can lose weight
without dieting as well.
And then I had to
write about success
and fulfilling your
heart and how important
it is to go from your passion
and not from your head where
you think, oh, this
is what I should do,
because this will
lead me to success.
But you have to be
authentic about it.
And then I thought what are
the things that really you
need to do to have
all these things?
And for me, courage
was the first one.
It's really like my
mantra every day.
So courage was really about the
finances and the relationship
and that kind of thing.
>> LILOU: What do you mean
it's your mantra every day?
You tell yourself when you wake
up today let's have courage?
>> VAN PRAAG: Not consciously.
But it's in there.
Like I say, maybe I'm quite
a shy person naturally
and quite inert, like my
comfort zone is my sofa.
And so courage is
really important for me.
So it's not like I tell
myself it every day,
but it's definitely kind of
tattooed on my heart somewhere.
>> LILOU: You're
conscious of it.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
So then when I do
things, like go and do
talks or workshops, that kind
of thing, and just to be present
and not to worry.
I learned some great lessons
about being present and taking
my attention off myself
and giving a gift
to other people,
this kind of thing.
And connection was
really another.
I had three, which is
courage, compassion
for yourself is so
important, and connection
with other people.
And that comes under
courage as well.
But the book is all about this
woman, and she starts off,
and she's so scared of life.
>> LILOU: Maya.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
And she doesn't
connect with anyone.
And she doesn't really
connect with herself.
And she has to go
out and meet people.
Because when you go
out and meet people,
you find the most
amazing things.
We met, and it was a miracle.
And you meet another person,
and you meet another person.
This is how life can transform.
Nothing transforms when you're
sitting at home on your sofa,
right?
And then compassion
is so important.
I never used to have
compassion for myself.
I was so hard on myself.
I was so hard on
myself that I couldn't
write, because I thought
everything has to be perfect,
Shakespeare, Austen,
nothing is good enough.
And I couldn't finish.
I couldn't finish a sentence.
So I had to have
compassion for myself.
And then I had to have courage.
Because when I was
at Oxford University,
it was very high standards.
And for me to write a book like
"Men, Money, and Chocolate,"
it so much comes from my heart.
And it's not a high
literature book.
It's just a very simple
book, but it's really
an expression of me.
And that took courage, to
express yourself, your heart
into the world.
And then maybe people will
say, oh, that's rubbish.
You have to have
the courage to keep
stepping out there
and giving yourself.
Yeah.
>> LILOU: It's so easy to
compare ourselves with others
or stop from those limiting
beliefs that we have.
Yeah.
There's a certain standard.
There's a certain
type of writing.
When really the world
now wants authenticity
and love and truth, huh?
Do you see that more and more?
Do you feel this
shift or this change?
Is it really happening?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah,
I feel it, really.
I tell people-- because now
I teach writing as well,
which I love.
And again, that was something
I was so scared to do.
I thought I can write, because
writing is my comfort zone.
And teaching is really
not my comfort zone.
But people were writing
to me and asking me
and wanting to send me their
books and this kind of thing.
And I thought really this is
something I could love this.
And I love it.
I love it so much.
And this is another
thing with connection.
And I always tell my students if
you're writing something really
from your heart there will
be someone else out there who
wants that, who
wants to hear that.
Because I really wrote
"Men, Money, and Chocolate"
from my heart.
I didn't think--
Because I didn't know about
marketing or publicity
or anything.
I didn't think, what
will women like?
I just had to say
what was true for me.
So I always think
now, yes, some people
will resonate with
Shakespeare, a lot of people,
but you don't have to write
like Shakespeare or Jane Austen
in order to have people
resonate with you.
I always believe we're
like tuning forks,
and there's people
out there-- like when
we met-- it's a little
soulmate connection.
You feel that.
And I felt that.
And there are people out
there always for everyone,
just like the love of
your life is out there.
Well, the people who you
connect with are out there.
So if you express yourself
as your authentic self,
there will always be people
who will connect with that.
>> LILOU: Then you attract
by expressing ourselves.
By expressing our
true selves, then we
attract the right people.
Otherwise it's kind
of like just we
attract more or less
of the old same kind
of mask-type attitude.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
>> LILOU: Then our life is
not truthful, not meaningful,
not what it could be
to this juiciness.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
>> LILOU: Your latest book,
the one with the house.
What is it called,
the full title?
>> VAN PRAAG: "The House
at the End of Hope Street."
>> LILOU: So tell
us about that one,
because it seems
really intriguing.
I can't wait to read it.
There is those
chocolate, apparently,
that have magic
potions, and there
is ghosts that
have conversations.
I want to hear all about it.
My god.
>> VAN PRAAG: Well, this
was a bit more of an epic.
I mean, not really,
but it took me,
like I say, many
years to write this.
It's fiction, but there's
so much of me in it still.
I think I can't right
real fiction-fiction.
And I wanted to
write about a house
that women came to when
they reached the end of hope
in their lives.
So something had happened to
them, and they just give up.
And this idea came to me I think
when I'd finished "Men, Money,
and Chocolate,"
and it was getting
published all over
the world and I
was getting these
emails from women.
And I thought, you know what?
If I ever became a millionaire
or something from books,
then I would buy
a big house, and I
would have it for artists.
And they could each live
there for a year or something,
for writers, for actors, for
painters, professions where
it's really hard
to do it and have
a full-time job
at the same time.
Because it took me 10 years
while I was waitressing.
And sometimes I think, well,
that was also a perfect.
But maybe if I'd have
had the opportunity
to be somewhere to get
a grant to just write,
maybe I could have
finished it sooner.
And I thought this would be
such a wonderful thing to do.
And this idea came, and
it kind of stayed in there
and percolated.
Then one day, I was in
Brooklyn, and I was walking down
the street with my husband,
and we saw this house,
and we stopped to look
at it and take photos,
because it really had
kind of a slightly
spooky, magical quality to it.
And I thought, ooh.
And the book started
to come to the surface.
And then when I came home,
I visited another friend,
and she was living in kind
of a women's, not a refuge
but a commune place.
And the house was an old
mill, and it had been adapted.
And it was amazing, because
I literally walked in,
and I felt almost like
the walls were breathing
and the house was
kind of hugging me.
It felt so welcoming.
And we went and had
tea in the kitchen,
and it was like it was alive.
The house was alive and almost
like the lights kind of dipped
down to have a look
at us or something.
And I went home, and
I started "The House
at the End of Hope Street."
It started off as this
Victorian house, and it's alive,
and it attracts women who
reach the end of hope.
So they're wandering
around the streets crying,
because maybe their
boyfriend had an affair
or they lost their
jobs or something
awful happened to them.
And then they find
themselves on the doorstep,
and they think, what am I doing
on the doorstep of this house?
And this old lady
who owns the house,
she opens the door,
because she always
knows they're coming
because she's psychic,
and invites them in.
And she gives them a
magical hot chocolate,
and they go to sleep
in a bed upstairs.
And when they wake up, the
room is their own room.
Exactly it has what they need in
order to transform their lives.
And they get to stay there
for three months, for 99 days
actually.
And their life transforms.
And this is what I wrote about.
>> LILOU: That's exciting.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
>> LILOU: When you write it,
do you see it as a movie?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah,
always, funnily enough.
>> LILOU: Maybe one
day it'll be a movie.
>> VAN PRAAG: That
would be lovely.
>> LILOU: That's one
of your other dreams?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
I wrote the film script for
"Men, Money, and Chocolate"
many years ago.
>> LILOU: Yeah?
>> VAN PRAAG: And I worked
on it with a producer,
but it fell through for
one reason or another.
But the film script
is still there.
>> LILOU: That's a good one,
if there is ever Hollywood
producers watching this.
Because I know Gaiam TV is big
in California and in the US.
But this is a great book.
Oh my goodness.
I have to speak to Bern
and Baine about this.
Oh my goodness.
It gives me an idea.
No, but I could so
see it as a movie,
"Men, Money, and Chocolate,"
and probably this other one too.
Oh my goodness.
It speaks to our heart.
That's what's the beauty.
I think some people are so
great at painting or explaining
complex things.
But this one is so simple and
just speaks to our hearts.
It's the same thing, I just
came back from Barcelona.
I interviewed this artist, and
his drawings are so simple.
But they say it all.
Either you're
reaching your heart
or you live from the
heart right there.
And that's what our
society needs right now,
just get it really fast, and
let's all move forward together
in this heart dimension.
I know that you're very much
into the living from the heart.
And that's one of
the conversations
that we had years ago.
Is that also part of the
message of this new book?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
>> LILOU: Those women, what
do they get out of the whole
experience there?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
They definitely
discover their hearts.
I think whenever you lose
hope you've lost touch
with your heart, haven't you?
Because if you're
connected with your heart,
you always have hope.
You always have that connection
with what's possible.
And if you ever lose
hope, it's because you've
lost touch with your heart.
So they all start
off in the house,
and they're all disconnected
in certain ways,
and they all discover
their heart connection.
They discover their courage.
They discover their dreams,
the possibilities of life,
love, all this.
And then they leave.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
Are they afraid to leave?
Because sometimes when we're
so nurtured and we feel
we've got something
or we do a seminar
or we hear a video or we've
got it, and we're like,
oh my god, but I might
lose this one day.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes, definitely.
And then that becomes your
new comfort zone, doesn't it?
So then you have to be
comfortable with letting go
and moving on to the next
thing and not really holding
onto the good experiences as
well as the bad experiences.
Because every new experience is
a new piece of life, isn't it?
It's always change.
Life is a guarantee to change.
I have this now, I
think, with my son.
Because he's two years old,
and he's such a cute age.
I treasure the days every day.
And I think he's
going to be grown.
He's already grown so much.
And everything changes.
We'll always change.
So you just appreciate
what you have now,
and then it will go
onto the next thing,
and it'll will be something
new and something different.
So letting go is also important.
Yeah, it's good.
>> LILOU: Were you able to
have your chocolate store?
I remember Maya, didn't she
have this chocolate place
or something?
Was it at the beginning
of the story or after?
I guess at the end.
>> VAN PRAAG: Well, she had
a cafe in the beginning.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAG: But I've
always had a dream,
because my husband's a chef,
of having a bookstore cafe.
This is always this thing.
And it's so funny how
you have these dreams
and what happens to them.
Because I also love
bookstores, but I
love stationary shops as
well, paper, envelopes.
I literally went into Liberty
sometime in the summer,
and saw their stationery shop,
and I got almost a head buzz
from it.
I got giddy because it was so
beautiful, all these papers.
And then I met this woman,
this thing with connection,
and she told me
that she always had
this fantasy of having
a stationery shop
and having it be
about letter writing
and about the lost
art of letter writing.
And when she told me this
story, I got goosebumps,
and I felt the air
kind of crackling.
I thought, oh my god,
I would love this.
And my husband could
have a little cafe,
and we could have sort of a
bookshop with a stationery
shop.
So the dream is very
much alive in me.
And then I went home,
and I was looking
for a new idea
for a book anyway.
And I started to write
this book about someone who
has a stationery shop and this
sort of magical letter writing
area in it.
Then I spoke to another
woman I met last week
and told her about this dream.
And she said, I've always
wanted to have a shop like this
and design it.
And her husband is a designer,
and he makes everything
to order.
He's like a carpenter as
well and an architect.
And I thought maybe we
could all do it together.
And this is the thing.
You have a dream, and you never
know how it will manifest.
But you have to keep
talking, don't you?
You have to keep putting it out
there and see what will happen.
>> LILOU: And feeling it.
Because it's very
much alive right now.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
Yes, absolutely.
>> LILOU: For you, tell us
what makes you really happy.
Because I know you have this
little list on your website,
and I love it, what
makes you truly happy.
I love when you get in
that zone of sharing,
when people just
open their heart,
and you're just able to
feel it and be there.
And I think all of us
can be part of that.
So what makes you truly
happy, Menna van Praag?
>> VAN PRAAG: I think the
thing that makes me happiest is
connecting with
people, for sure.
It's funny, because in the
past I didn't think that.
I was so shy, and I thought
what makes me happiest
is to be writing, which does
make me very happy to write.
But I kind of hide behind
my words, and I go home,
and I'm writing, and so on.
For example, meeting this
woman and discussing this idea
with her.
You know when you make
connection with someone
and you start really
buzzing from it?
I was looking for
a new book topic,
and I was going around
in my head too much.
And I always think if
things aren't going well,
if you have a bit of
writer's block or something,
just go outside.
Go out and maybe meet someone.
And it was so funny, because
I was teaching this class.
I give my students
homework every week.
And I got so excited
by our class,
we were so passionately talking
about writing, and I said,
I will join the
homework this week,
and I will write the first
chapter of my new book.
And then the next day,
I was like, oh my gosh,
now I have to keep my word.
You know?
And then I had a
little panic, because I
didn't know what I
was going to write.
I'd started something, but it
wasn't really going anywhere.
And then my friend texted me.
She said, do you want
to come out for cake?
I said, I always want
to come out for cake.
And I never say no
to this question.
And I went to the
cafe, and I said, look,
I'm kind of
struggling with this.
And so I started talking
about this to her.
And I said, this is
what's exciting me.
And literally within two hours
we had created a whole book.
It was so funny.
I cycled home, and I
was giggling to myself.
And I was so excited and
squealing on the bike.
And the leaves were
blowing in the autumn wind.
And it was so beautiful.
I watched this beautiful
movie in September
called "About Time."
Have you seen it?
>> LILOU: No.
>> VAN PRAAG: It's so lovely.
It's by Richard Curtis,
whom I love anyway.
And it's all about how this
moment that we have is perfect.
And we have the idea that
other moments are more perfect.
And he came up with
the idea, because he
said if he had just one day
to live that he could choose
any day of his life--
because this guy travels
in time in this movie--
which day would he choose?
And he said, it wouldn't be
a day where I won awards.
It wouldn't be a big party.
It would just be a simple
day with my family,
with the people I love, on
a beach, having a tea party.
And I thought that's so lovely.
Because the character,
first he goes back in time
to all the days he
thinks are the best days,
and then he really learns that
every day, every simple little
day is perfect if you're
just there to experience
it and connect with it enjoy it.
And I thought, yeah,
that's so true.
So yesterday I took my son out
to kick through some leaves
on the sidewalk.
>> LILOU: I would do it.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
And you just kind of--
these little days.
I found a new book, and I was
reading on the train on the way
here, and I was so excited.
I discovered knitting.
I love to knit.
Yeah.
And I get so excited when
I make something new.
All these little things
in life that sometimes--
>> LILOU: You love chocolate.
>> VAN PRAAG: And
I love chocolate.
So I went just to Notting Hill
before coming to visit you,
and I was like, oh my gosh,
all these new chocolates.
>> LILOU: Tell us about the
name of that beautiful place
in Notting Hill.
>> VAN PRAAG: Oh, Melt.
>> LILOU: Melt.
>> VAN PRAAG: That was
where I took you, right,
the first time.
Yeah.
I visit there every time I come
to London, and it's gorgeous.
And I love it.
And they did macaroons today.
And I thought,
ooh, very exciting.
It's little things of
life that get you--
I bought my friend, she
showed me yesterday--
this is the actress
in New York-- I
bought her a little bookmark.
And it says something about
treasuring the little things
in life, because one day
you'll look back and realize
that they were the big things.
And I thought, yeah,
that's so true.
Sometimes we can lose
perspective thinking, oh,
what's really the big things
is getting a book published.
This is not true really at all.
>> LILOU: It's the
journey to it, huh?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
I remember when I had my
book launch for "Men, Money,
and Chocolate" in Cambridge,
which was my hometown,
and we had it in the Borders,
and we had the whole floor.
We had hundreds of
people there, and it
was a really huge success,
and it was amazing.
And I thought I'm going to
feel so amazing on this night,
because it's this
culmination of a dream
that I've had my whole life.
And here it is.
Here it is.
And I remember I didn't
feel that way at all.
I kind of had that buzz.
And the night was over, and I
was like, oh, OK, this is it.
But really nothing had changed.
I think sometimes you tell
yourself this will change me
or this will complete me.
And like you say,
it's the journey.
It's really not the destination.
But you don't almost believe
that until you experience it.
And then you find out,
yeah, that's so true.
>> LILOU: Tell us about some of
those other insights that you
had writing your other books.
Because you're
writing another one
and another one and another one.
You're just this
writer now, full-time.
So no blockages, just full-on.
What is the next one
or the next topic?
Or what do you feel is
important to bring out?
>> VAN PRAAG: Well, the one
that's coming out after "Hope
Street" is about a
magical dress shop.
And this was actually
the theme of-- yeah,
maybe it's sort of all these
themes from "Men, Money,
and Chocolate,"
they're coming out,
but they're coming out
longer and bigger and richer.
>> LILOU: It's so theatrical.
I could totally see that
with movies and theaters
and with the costumes.
Oh my goodness.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
>> LILOU: So colorful.
Your books are so colorful.
>> VAN PRAAG: Yes.
They're all set in
Cambridge, and then I
pick a different place,
a different location.
So the Hope Street house is this
grand magical Victorian house
with these incredible
rooms, and it's gorgeous.
And that was very much
about bringing out
the theme of courage again.
And the next book is
"Fabric of Wonders."
And this is about a
magical dress shop.
And this is very much
the theme of compassion.
Because the woman who
owns the dress shop,
she draws to her women
who aren't looking
for the perfect dress to make
them look thinner or make
them look taller or whatever.
She draws women who are looking
for a piece of themselves.
They have something
that's lost inside them.
And you know somehow where
you can put on an outfit
and it makes you feel
a million dollars?
And you just think
I could do anything.
So she has a little
magic stitch.
So she finds an amazing
dress, and these women who
think that they're
not much, they
look at themselves in the
mirror and they think, hold on.
Who are you?
And what am I capable of?
And they see a
part of themselves
that they never saw before.
And then she makes a
little magical stitch,
and she says, you know, any
time that you need that feeling
again, you put on
this dress, and you
know you're going to be OK.
So this is another theme that
I brought out in this book.
And it has many other elements.
There's a man with a
magical voice in there
who when he reads to you
you feel transformed.
And he's in love
with a scientist
who doesn't notice him because
she's always stuck in her head.
So there's many
different themes.
But there's always
some kind of thing
about courage,
compassion, connection.
These things stay with me.
>> LILOU: Where
is all this going?
Can you imagine or see
what the full puzzle
will be like later on
in 20 years, 30 years?
>> VAN PRAAG: No.
I think that's part
of the journey.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> VAN PRAAG: I'll look
back and, oh, yeah.
That's what it-- I'll
see all these threads.
In a way, I think I wrote
"Men, Money, and Chocolate"
for myself.
It was almost like a fantasy.
Then I made it happen.
And it was funny.
Because when I wrote the
sequel, I wrote the sequel
about having a relationship and
about dealing with some success
that you've had in your life and
about having balance and about
family and what did
you want to have.
And it's so funny because
a great chunk of it
hadn't happened.
In "Men, Money, and Chocolate,"
it hadn't happened to me.
But then it happened,
and it was almost as
if I'm writing these things
and then they happen.
I look back on it, and I was
re-reading a portion of it
the other day because I
had to go and give a talk.
I said, oh my god.
That's really crazy that
that then happened to me.
>> LILOU: So you changed
character in each of them?
The first one, you were Maya.
In the latest one, what are you?
Are you this person that
puts the costume on?
>> VAN PRAAG: Yeah.
I don't know.
In "Men, Money, and
Chocolate," I was so Maya,
and that was
absolutely my story.
And anyone who knows
me who reads it says,
oh my god, that's so you.
And now because there
are many, many characters
in all the different
books, maybe there's
a piece of me in many
of the characters,
but there's not really one
character that I think,
oh, yeah.
That's me.
Now I'm sort of more
removed from it a bit.
But it's a different experience.
>> LILOU: Last little word
of inspiration for all
the co-creators
watching right now?
>> VAN PRAAG: Stick with your
dreams, and never, never,
never, never give up.
I wrote in "Men,
Money, and Chocolate,"
if you don't give
up, you can't fail.
That's what I say.
>> LILOU: Mmm.
Beautiful.
Thank you, Menna, for this
delicious conversation.
>> VAN PRAAG: Thank you.
>> LILOU: And big, big kisses to
all juicy co-creators watching
this video.
We love you.
We send you so much love
from beautiful London.
Bye bye.
Cut.
Yay!